Add Implementation for cf-510C Fox and Names (#3806)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/gold/cf-510C.mdx

---
id: cf-510C
source: CF
title: Fox And Names
author: Daniel Ge
---

> ## Solution

Reviewer: Ok, I think you should rephrase the writing here to maybe lexicographically sort the strings or rephrase the writing so that it makes more sense.

Author: I'll rephrase the wording as you would like

> The key idea here is to perform topological sort on the characters of the alphabet. 

Reviewer: There should be something that comes before this

Author: Should I add hints? Or maybe a leadup to thinking about topological sort?

Reviewer: Yeah

Author: I have written hints and formatted them the way SansPapyrus [showed me](https://github.com/cpinitiative/usaco-guide/pull/3745) with the explanation and implementation in a solution spoiler as well. If you'd like me to do it in a different manner that's fine as well

> We find what must come before what by comparing consecutive strings. If string $name_i$ is lexicographically less than $name_{i+1}$, we compare only the first occurence of a different letter. In other words, we take the common prefix out and compare the first letters. For example, if we are given,

Reviewer: > We find what must come before what by comparing consecutive strings.

This doesn't make sense

Reviewer: > We find what must come before what by comparing consecutive strings. If string $name_i$ is lexicographically less than $name_{i+1}$, we compare only the first occurence of a different letter. In other words, we take the common prefix out and compare the first letters.

I think this can be worded better

Author: ok I rephrased everything to be more precise

```
axcd
axbe
```

> We see that the common prefix is "ax", so the first pair of differing letters is 'c' and 'b'. Since "axcd" comes first, that means 'c' comes before 'b' in the desired alphabet.

Reviewer: > Since "axcd" comes first, that means 'c' comes before 'b' in the desired alphabet.

This doesn't make sense... What do you mean by desired alphabet?

Author: the desired alphabet is the answer that we want, do you have any suggestions on how I can rephrase it better? idk how to change it

Author: ok

In the special case that one word is the prefix of the other such as the case with,
```
abc
abcde
```

> We just check whether the second (lexicographically greater) string is longer as is supposed to be the case according to the problem statement. If this is indeed not the case, then we can just output "Impossible".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the lexicographically greater string is the longer string. If the two strings are the same, then we can just output "Impossible".
```

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n\text{ |name}_i|)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// Used for topological sort

> vector<int> indegree = vector<int>(26, 0);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
vector<int> indegree = vector<int>(26);
```
vectors are 0-initialized by default

vector<vector<int>> conn = vector<vector<int>>(26, vector<int>());
vector<int> sorted;

void topological_sort() {
	queue<int> q;
	for (int i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
		if (indegree[i] == 0) { q.push(i); }
	}
	while (!q.empty()) {
		int pos = q.front();
		q.pop();
		sorted.push_back(pos);
		for (auto c : conn[pos]) {
			if ((--indegree[c]) == 0) { q.push(c); }
		}
	}
}

int main() {
	int n;
	// We make sure each pair of consecutive strings are in the right order
	string cur, prev;  

	/*
	 * No previous string to compare the first string to, 
	 * so we read it directly into prev
	 */
	cin >> n >> prev;  
	for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> cur;

		// Maximum length to compare
		int leng = min(prev.length(), cur.length());  
		// How long the prefix has been the same for
		int samed = 0;

> 		while (samed < leng) {

Reviewer 3: why not just use a for loop lmao?

Author: Mostly because samed is used outside the loop.

I was already considering changing it to a while loop and the other reviewer preferred while loop so I changed it.

Reviewer: yeah a while loop makes more sense given the variable is also used outside

			if (prev[samed] != cur[samed]) {
				/*
				 * As soon as we see a difference, we make sure 
				 * the alphabetic follows the order presented
				 */

> 				int ncur = int(cur[samed]) - 97, nprev = int(prev[samed]) - 97;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
				int ncur = cur[samed] - 'a', nprev = prev[samed] - 'a';
```

---
id: cf-510C
source: CF
title: Fox And Names
author: Daniel Ge
---

## Solution
The key idea here is to perform topological sort on the characters of the alphabet. 

We find what must come before what by comparing consecutive strings. If string $name_i$ is lexicographically less than $name_{i+1}$, we compare only the first occurence of a different letter. In other words, we take the common prefix out and compare the first letters. For example, if we are given,
```
axcd
axbe
```
We see that the common prefix is "ax", so the first pair of differing letters is 'c' and 'b'. Since "axcd" comes first, that means 'c' comes before 'b' in the desired alphabet.

In the special case that one word is the prefix of the other such as the case with,
```
abc
abcde
```
We just check whether the second (lexicographically greater) string is longer as is supposed to be the case according to the problem statement. If this is indeed not the case, then we can just output "Impossible".
## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n\text{ |name}_i|)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// Used for topological sort
int indegree[26];

> vector<int> conn[26];

Reviewer 2: use vectors

Author: I changed it to vector<int> and vector<vector<int>> respectively

vector<int> sorted;

void topological_sort() {
	queue<int> q;
	for (int i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
		if (indegree[i] == 0) q.push(i);
	}
	while (!q.empty()) {
		int pos = q.front();
		q.pop();
		sorted.push_back(pos);
		for (auto c : conn[pos]) {

> 			if ((--indegree[c]) == 0) q.push(c);

Reviewer 2: braces (everywhere!!)

		}
	}
}

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0);

> 	cin.tie(nullptr);

Reviewer 2: remove if runs w/o

Author: removed

	int n;
	// We make sure each pair of consecutive strings are in the right order
	string cur, prev;  

	/*
	 No previous string to compare the first string to, 
	 so we read it directly into prev
	*/
	cin >> n >> prev;  
	for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> cur;

		// Maximum length to compare
		int leng = min(prev.length(), cur.length());  
		// How long the prefix has been the same for
		int samed = 0;

		while (samed < leng) {
			if (prev[samed] != cur[samed]) {
				/*
				 As soon as we see a difference, we make sure 
				 the alphabetic follows the order presented
				*/
				int ncur = int(cur[samed]) - 97, nprev = int(prev[samed]) - 97;
				indegree[ncur] ++;
				conn[nprev].push_back(ncur);
				break;
			}
			samed ++;
		}
		/*
			If cur is a prefix of prev, then it is already impossible 
			for cur to be lexicographically more than prev

> 		*/

Reviewer 2: ```cpp
/*
 * multiline comments
 * should be done
 * like this
 */
```

Author: oh mb

		if ((samed == leng) && (prev.length() > cur.length())) {
			cout << "Impossible" << endl;
			return 0;
		}
		prev = cur;
	}

	topological_sort();

	// If topological sort not completeable, it's impossible
	if (sorted.size() < 26) {
		cout << "Impossible" << endl;
	} else {

> 		for (auto s : sorted) { cout << char(s + 97); }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// Print out numbers converted back to characters
		for (int s : sorted) { cout << char(s + 'a'); }
```

---
id: cf-510C
source: CF
title: Fox And Names
author: Daniel Ge
---

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">
What is the thing that the problem wants us to sort that we can apply topological sort on?

> </Spoiler>

Reviewer: This makes no sense

<Spoiler title="Hint 2">
In topological sort, we look at which nodes must be visited before each node. We can make the characters of the alphabet these nodes.

> </Spoiler>

Reviewer: This should be rewritten

---
id: cf-510C
source: CF
title: Fox And Names
author: Daniel Ge
---

> 

Reviewer: Can you provide a solution explanation?

Author: I added one

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// used for topological sort
int indegree[26];
vector<int> conn[26];
vector<int> sorted;

void topological_sort() {
	queue<int> q;
	for (int i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
		if (indegree[i] == 0) q.push(i);
	}
	while (!q.empty()) {
		int pos = q.front();
		q.pop();
		sorted.push_back(pos);
		for (auto c : conn[pos]) {
			if ((--indegree[c]) == 0) q.push(c);
		}
	}
}

int main() {
	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0);
	cin.tie(nullptr);

> 	int N;

Reviewer: why is N capitalized?

Author: force of habit sry I'll change it

> 	string cur, prev;  // we make sure each pair of consecutive strings are in

Reviewer: put the comments before and use multiline. also make sure that the lines are evenly spaced.

	                   // the right order

> 	cin >> N >> prev;  // no previous string to compare the first string to, so

Reviewer: same here

	                   // read directly into prev
	for (int i = 1; i < N; i++) {
		cin >> cur;

		int leng =

> 		    min(prev.length(), cur.length());  // maximum length to compare

Reviewer: put comment before this code and define leng in one line

		int j;
		for (j = 0; j < leng; j++) {
			if (prev[j] != cur[j]) {
				// as soon as we see a difference,

> 				// we make sure the alphabetic follows the order presented

Reviewer: multiline + evenly space

				indegree[int(cur[j]) - 97]++;

> 				conn[int(prev[j]) - 97].push_back(int(cur[j]) - 97);

Reviewer: put `int(cur[j) - 97` in a variable (no need to use it three times)

Author: I only used it twice here but I changed it

				break;
			}

> 		}

Reviewer: can you make this a while loop? the for loop seems unnatural

Reviewer 3: i think it's fine

Author: I defined j outside the loop so I did make it a while loop

		if ((j == leng) && (prev.length() > cur.length())) {
			// if cur is a prefix of prev, then it is already impossible

> 			// for cur to be lexicographically more than prev

Reviewer: multiline

			cout << "Impossible" << endl;
			return 0;
		}
		prev = cur;
	}

	topological_sort();

	if (sorted.size() < 26) {

> 		// if topological sort not complete-able, it's impossible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// if topological sort isn't completable, it's impossible
```

		cout << "Impossible" << endl;
	} else {

> 		for (auto s : sorted) { cout << char(s + 97); }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		for (auto s : sorted) { 
		    cout << char(s + 97); 
		}
```

Reviewer 3: uhh keep it as it originally is or the dumb bot will just fix it back lol

Author: yeah I'll just keep it
